okay okay as I used to say on this
channel all the time it ain't deep but
it's real this is a little bit parallel
to the type of advice I've given to
video game addicts I had people write
back to me in response to my videos
about video game addiction what-have-you
and it's the easiest thing in the world
to say to someone who's played video
games compulsively all their life oh
well you should get other hobbies you
should get other interests and their
problem is from when they were six years
old or something this has been their
only hobby and interest and it's it's
not easy it's not like you can just flip
a switch and suddenly become you know a
profound intellectual person with a lot
of meaning in your life that makes
playing video games seem relatively
meaningless or trivial alright these
women cannot just flip a switch and
become substantive intellectuals with
humanitarian interests and historical
interests what have you that make
Instagram and their physical appearance
seem petty or trivial in their lives and
for someone like Kristen Leo at age 28
in many ways it's too late such a waste
of time and I know it's so hard because
even myself working on social media
knowing how fake it is knowing that
there's just so much wrong with it I
still find myself comparing myself to
other girls and that's where the
unfollow button is a great tool and I
know it can be hard sometimes but this
is an act of self-love
go through your following if anyone even
makes you the slightest bit like
insecure feeling not good about yourself
unfollow them my New England
goes on Instagram and some feeling like
[ __ ] and like I need a million different
procedures done to my body and to my
face in order to look like I'm not a
troll that just crawled out of a gutter
and my the only one that gets irritated
when scrolling through endless pictures
that just make you feel like your life
is never gonna be enough and never gonna
amount to anything
I just can't scroll on the feed anymore
I remember I did this like two years ago
and I unfollowed so many people and
people even message to me like hey why
do I follow me you have a problem with
me and I was like honestly no like I
love you as a person but sometimes I
feel insecure when I see your photos if
you're focused only on appearance how do
you grow on the other fields of your
life how do you get better how do you
become the greatest version of yourself
that you can be if all you care about is
your appearance when those people post
pictures of themselves where they look
perfect and you already have sort of an
idea of how great their lives are and
then you get it in a picture form and in
more pictures and more experience of all
the things that they do we don't want a
great life they have it it wrecks your
confidence 1 1 wow wow wow it wrecks
your confidence and as much as you're
trying to reason it all good you know
their life isn't always perfect you know
that but it's really hard to reason with
that Wow
it happens in an instant you're just
scrolling on the fee you see the picture
and you immediately feel bad and then
you keep scrolling you can see someone
else's picture and then feel even worse
yeah I used to be a teenager and I was
insanely
affected by images and if a younger
generation is getting influenced to
value appearance over an
thing else and it's told and if you want
to be pretty you've got to lighten your
skin you gotta do lip fillers you got to
get boob job you got to stop eating you
got a drink
skinny tea and wear girdles on your
waist like a little I'm really not lying
when I say that Instagram makes me feel
it makes me feel like a monster like I
see this perfect picture this beautiful
girl and then I look in the mirror and
I'm like oh god kill it it's it's just
so intense how horrible it makes me feel
about myself and I think that I have
enough common sense to be like okay this
is making me not like myself so I'm now
gonna expose myself to this as I used to
say on this channel all the time it
ain't deep but it's real this is
admittedly a shallow issue but shallow
does not mean silly shallow does not
mean unimportant I think this is an
issue that's tremendously important for
a lot of men and women watching this
channel a lot of men and women who never
will the videos I'm quoting here are of
two women and I can't even say young
women Kristin leo is 28 I think I think
the other woman recording I think she's
about 26 27 so these are fully grown
adult women and they're struggling to
deal with their own shallowness and
stupidity on camera and from my
perspective they are utterly failing to
do so they're utterly failing to as the
most simple and obvious comparative
questions about what this all means in
their own lives and on planet earth okay
I raise the question here in text on
screen why is it you only talk about
physical beauty here why don't you make
any comparisons to other sorts of
accomplishments in life intellectual or
otherwise now we're living through a
period of time when it's become a bit
popular again probably just due to
academic necessity for people to buy an
empty plot of land and build their own
house you might know about the time
house fed so on and so forth obviously
that's as old as time itself some of my
grandparents I think on both sides the
family built their own houses at
different times and something I can
imagine doing myself all right I will
never be a great architect I will never
be a brilliant architect
I will never even build a great house
right but I can build my own house I can
build a house that is in some sense
uniquely mine uniquely my own and there
may be some satisfaction that I can
build a house the best I can
[Laughter]
most of us watching this video I think
it's true my soul I don't think I could
ever be a great novelist you know and
why would I serve I mean I haven't spent
my life practicing the art with a craft
or what have you
I haven't even spent my life reading
novels I really read nonfiction okay but
I could write a novel that's uniquely my
own right
that's distinctively of me and by me and
not not for me it's for you it's for the
audience right and there's some value in
that and yet it's not in these areas
it's not in creative writing or
architecture or anything else that these
women feel insecurity it's not I mean
there's this poem Ozymandias you know
look on my look on my works ye mighty
and feel ashamed or something they don't
feel ashamed of themselves looking at
the pyramids of the of Egypt they shave
themselves looking at the
accomplishments of Napoleon what a new
poll yet accomplished by your age they
don't look at Julius Caesar and they
don't look at any of the great figures
of history right I'm ancient modern Dark
Ages in between no these are women who
choose to look at models on Instagram
and that's what their sense of
self-worth is to a shoe that's with this
puzzle of insecurities attached to you I
just want to add you're the observation
that
I see throughout our society and I'm
speaking broadly here of the modern
Western world I see this remarkable
pattern of beautiful women only being
friends with other beautiful women I
think that's a pattern that starts in
primary school I think it's a pattern
that starts in childhood when people
aren't even really aware of the social
or sexual value of beauty or human
inequality when they don't think of it
in those terms when they definitely
don't think of beauty as a competition
for the attention of the opposite sex or
a competition for popularity on
Instagram or for the possibility of
getting a modeling contract or something
else and I think that people are really
made more brittle by just not hearing
the perspective of those who are really
ugly you know I think there's something
to be said for intellectuals hearing the
perspective of people who are stupid or
even who are mentally disabled I you'll
be a digression edge but I think that's
part of the positive value of democracy
but you may be an expert on solar power
but can you come out and present at City
Hall and argument for the advantages and
disadvantages of solar power that the
average man can understand or even
someone of below-average Joe Blow
average education intelligence can
understand there's actually sense which
we ourselves are trained and benefit by
presenting something from our own area
of expertise to a general audience or
you know that brilliant people actually
do benefit from having friends and
colleagues who are not so brilliant and
there's no doubt in my mind that someone
like Kristen Leo would have a very
different perspective on the world if
she had just one friend who was really
born within this shape and face like you
know I don't yeah beauty is in the eye
of the beholder blah blah blah but you
know we all know this there's a sense in
which some people are born with
chromosomal disorders some people are
born so misshapen and so ugly that the
chance for them to ever be married the
chance for them to ever have a single
boyfriend is slim with they're not
thinking about life at all from this
perspective of can I compete to be the
top of the Instagram he
or you know does her boyfriend think I'm
prettier than she is or this kind of no
and I want to add - apart from the
beauty is in the eye of the beholder
distraction there's also this question
of oh well beauty is culturally relative
this problem exists in every culture in
every continent you can know Japanese
people who are basically by accident of
birth of course to some extent health
and fitness come into it but
fundamentally they are born so beautiful
that they never need to get a job and
they're always well they're always
offered jobs they're offered a role as a
model and a TV presenter and so on from
a very early age they're told that
talented have these managers just
because their appearance and you can
meet people at the opposite extreme who
all their lives are the object of pity
and derision because they're so ugly
their faces so misshapen that's true in
Japan and you can meet people from
Africa who are at the opposite extremes
so even if within their own culture the
precise fine-tuning of who is the most
beautiful who gets the modeling contract
or what-have-you differs that's not what
we're talking about here we're talking
about the stark inequality between the
different levels of beauty and ugliness
and as I say it's really disturbing to
me that what I see with the female of
the species I don't see this with men
they're handsome men who have ugly
friends I've gotta tell you if Western
culture I don't see it what I see is
with women organizing themselves into
tribes were their only friends with
other women who are equally beautiful as
themselves and then of course this is
normalizing and creates a kind of echo
chamber so if you're a woman who spends
a lot of time on hair and makeup all
your friends are about the same level of
attractiveness and they all spend time
on hair or makeup you're a woman who
goes to the gym for six hours a week and
it becomes normal view of all female
friends who go to the gym for six hours
a week so on and so forth and you end up
I think with this really strange myopic
and brittle perspective of the people
we've seen on camera now all right this
is a little bit parallel to the type of
advice I've given to videogame addicts I
had people write back to me in response
to my videos about the video game
addiction
and it's the easiest thing in the world
to say to someone who's played video
games compulsively all their life oh
well you should get other hobbies you
should get their interest and their
problem is from when they were six years
old or something this has been their
only hobby and interest and it's it's
not easy it's not like you can just flip
a switch and suddenly become you know a
profound intellectual person with a lot
of meaning in your life that makes
playing video games seem relatively
meaningless or trivial alright these
women cannot just flip a switch and
become substantive intellectuals with
humanitarian interests and historical
interests what have you that make
Instagram and their physical appearance
seem petty or trivial on their lives and
for someone like Kristen Leo at age 28
in many ways it's too late all right age
30 is coming and she saw as the
mentality of a 16 year old at best and
not again even amongst 16 year olds this
would be kind of shockingly shallow and
petty um and I sympathize all right
sympathy is an analytical tool I can
analyze this situation sympathetically
and see oh she's gotten herself into
this mindset now instinctually in terms
of evolution every other way competition
for scarce resources make sense if you
go to a school where there's only one
good-looking boy you want or maybe there
are two or three attractive males you
want uses your situation in high school
and you're competing with the other
girls for that same boy I understand
your feeling about your appearance and
so on matters if you're actually
competing for the same contract as a
model or you're in a singing competition
that's implicitly about how beautiful
you are
and you feel you're in competition for
who's the prettiest amongst the other
singers of the other models I understand
that's makes sense what we've got here
is a situation where that competitive
instinct has become unglued from its
pragmatic function and it's become
generalized to be a kind of neuro
applied to the whole world to life to
how you perceive even a website you
perceive reality itself okay and it it
is as Freud Sigmund Freud said all
neurosis is in principle sexual alright
of course it's sexual because you're not
doing this with authors you're not doing
this with intellectuals you're not doing
this with architects you're not walking
through a beautifully designed building
and thinking wow I could never come up
with the blueprints for this even if I
had all the budget in the world with my
little plot of land I could never build
a house that looks like this or design
an office that that's right you can you
never will and you're never even gonna
try you're never even gonna you know
push yourself to that limit and try to
accomplish something like that in
architecture you failed you fail from
day one you know no this is only and
exclusively in the domain of beauty
because of the bizarre way in which
beauty is at all times linked to sexual
competition even if you aren't aware
that it is
[Music]